# Snowflake Classification 2021 EPFL

## General Information

The repository contains the code and report for Machine Learning course 2021 (CS-433) project 2 at EPFL. The purpose of this project is to classify snowflakes with hydrometeors class and estimate their riming degree.

### Team
The project is accomplished by team `Ma_BG` with members:
- Marie-Alix Gillyboeuf: [@GILLYBOEUF]
- Baptiste Hernette: [@Bapitou]
- Gaspard Villa: [@gaspardvilla] 


### Data
The data for both hydrometeor classification and riming degree are on a google drive, it is not necessary to download them as the file ‘dataloader.py’ do it directly.

### Environment
The project has been developed and test with `python3.6`.
The required library for running the models and training is `numpy`, ‘panda’ and ‘sklearn’.
The library for visualization is `matplotlib`.

### Results

Results to predict the test datasets are generated by running:
`run.py`.

* * *
## Project structure

### Training data 
`models.py`: the implementation of the 4 machine learning models to train with their hyperparameters to tuned.

`run.py`: the results obtained with the models for both hydrometeor classification and estimation of riming degree.

### Processing data 
`dataloader.py`: permits to load the data from a google drive and obtain the classes to estimate.

’Dataprocess.py`:  process the data by taking the columns we need and processing standardization.

`helpers.py`: useful tools data preprocessing and to load our save the different models.

### Selecting Model

`cross_validalidation.py`: using cross-validation to find the best hyperparameters with the test accuracy of different models.

`plots.py`: functions that gives us the tools to visualize the data.

### Report

`ML_Snowflakes.pdf`: a 4-pages report of the complete solution.

